# I18Next.NetThis project is based on I18Next.Net by DarkLiKally (https://github.com/DarkLiKally/I18Next.Net)Copyright (c) [original copyright years]Licensed under the MIT License (see below).I18Next.Net is a port of I18Next for JavaScript. It implements most of the features provided by the original library andenhances this by some more .Net specific features.

## ✨ Enhancements

- **JSON Backend with Multi-File Support**  
  Implemented a flexible JSON backend `JsonFileExtendedBackend` that loads and merges multiple `.json` localization files from the base directory. This allows modular, scalable language resource management.

- - **JSON Backend for embedded resouces Support**  
  Implemented a JSON backend `JsonResourceBackend` that loads localization files from the embedded resources.

- **Pluralization Support (Version 4)**  
  Added support for advanced pluralization rules based on i18next v4, enabling more accurate and language-aware translation behavior.

- **Pluggable Path Resolution via `IPathResolver`**  
  Introduced the `IPathResolver` interface to customize how localization file paths are resolved. This improves flexibility, testability, and configurability for diverse hosting scenarios.
## InstallationNuget:```Install-Package I18Next.Net.Version4```.NET Cli:```dotnet add package I18Next.Net.Version4```See [Nuget](https://www.nuget.org/packages/I18Next.Net.Version4/) for more information.If you want to integrate with `IServiceCollection` also install `I18Next.Net.Extensions````Install-Package I18Next.Net.Extensions.Version4```For further integration with AspNetCore you are also required to add the I18Next.Net.AspNetCore package.```Install-Package I18Next.Net.AspNetCore.Version4```See the usage information below for further help.## Basic UsageJust for now, a quick description on how to use the library in an AspNetCore MVC application.First you have to register the required services in your application startup. If you call the `IntegrateToAspNetCore`method you can use the default configuration for AspNetCore applications which includes an HTML-escaping interpolatorand the language detection based on the requests `Accept-Language` header (internally it is based on the current threadlanguage). I'll explain further below how to make the language detection work.```csharpservices.AddI18NextLocalization(i18n => i18n.IntegrateToAspNetCore());```Now you're ready to go using I18Next by simply injecting `IStringLocalizer` into your controllers and services.```csharp// ...private readonly IStringLocalizer<HomeController> _localizer;public HomeController(IStringLocalizer<HomeController> localizer){    _localizer = localizer;}public IActionResult About(){    ViewData["Message"] = _localizer["about.description"];    return View();}// ...```If you also want to use [view localization](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/localization?view=aspnetcore-2.1#view-localization)in your mvc application you should configure I18Next view localization by adding the following to your MVC builder.```csharpservices.AddMvc()    .AddI18NextViewLocalization();```In order to make the language detection work let the app use request localization. Don't forget to specify thesupported languages.```csharpapp.UseRequestLocalization(options => options.AddSupportedCultures("de", "en"));```You can always take a look at the `Example.WebApp` in the `examples` directory until there is a proper documentationabout all the provided functionality.To customize the locale file locations or use other backends just take a look at the i18next builder possibilitiesprovided by the service registration.```csharpservices.AddI18NextLocalization(i18n => i18n    .IntegrateToAspNetCore()    .AddBackend(new JsonFileBackend("wwwroot/locales"))    .UseDefaultLanguage("es"));```There are lots of more configuration options. More documentation will follow in the future.## Todo* Auto build pipeline* Further documentation* More tests* More examples* Configurable auto namespace/scope selection for `IStringLocalizer<T>`